- [Instructor] Authentication and authorization
are too often misunderstood, overlooked,
or confused by application developers.
The topics of discussion behind these two words
can fill volume but I want to provide a simple baseline
on the meaning of these words and how they apply
to software so we can level set
before we move forward in the course.
Let's start with authentication,
also commonly called AuthN.
Authentication is a process of determining the who.
Specifically and more technically, it is the process
of determining that a principal is who they say they are.
Now, this goes beyond a simple username
and password scenario.
But that can be a method of authentication.
A point to remember when talking about principals
in authentication is that systems
as well as humans can be principals.
Often we leverage a process of a system
calling another system.
And in a microservices world, that tends to happen a lot.
We can leverage Spring Security to secure
system to system calls the same way
we would use for user to system calls.
Now, Spring provides out-of-the-box support
for many different flavors of authentication.
In the web world, there's support for HTTP basic
as well as HTTP digest authentication.
It also provides support for x509
certificate-based authentication.
The most common internal level of authentication model
is forms-based authentication.
In Spring Security, it provides rich and robust support
for forms-based authentication models.
Now, in the enterprise world, we often see integration
of LDAP as a method of authentication.
In Spring Security, it provides native LDAP support
as well as support from Microsoft Active Directory
using the LDAP abstraction.
This is clearly one of the most common integration points
in the world for Java-based applications
using Spring Security.
Spring Security also has rich support
for other external-facing authentication providers
that are much more common in an internet-based system.
Spring can support OAuth and Oauth 2, OpenID,
as well as Jasig CAS for single sign-on
authentication operations.
Also, as you might expect from the Java world,
there's also support for JAAS.
Finally, Spring natively supports Kerberos and SAML.
We're not going to go into those topics in this course
but if for some reason you find yourself
needing to implement these protocols,
note that Spring Security can take away some of the pain,
not all of it, especially with Kerberos, but some of it.
Spring also has rich third-party support
for many other authentication providers.
That brings us to authorization, also commonly called AuthZ.
Once we determine who the principal is via AuthN,
we can then determine what they're authorized to do.
The principal must be authenticated to get to this point.
So it's a prerequisite in every flow.
Often, authorization is also called access control.
And for good reason.
Via authorization, you are controlling access
to the underlying resources.
Spring Security handles authorizations and in doing so
supports three distinct cases.
The first and most common and the one
that we will dig into exclusively in this course
is web request-based authorizations.
The pattern that we apply to web requests can be extended,
however, to support method invocation security.
And this becomes very powerful when you're setting up
multiple services with multiple methods underneath them.
And finally, you can leverage spring security
to provide domain object instance access control,
which can be very powerful in highly sensitive areas
like PII, financial, and healthcare information.